Analysis and visualization of parking tickets in NYC during 2015 and 2017.

This project was done as a final project of Business Analyst Course. The data was taken from NYCOpenData and modified into SQL database, for the students' use.

The analysis was done using mostly Power BI and was divided to 5 different reports.

The first step was the preparation of the data (ETL) using Power Query:
Preparation of dimenstion tables by merging existing tables by different categories - location, issuers, veichle.
Preparation of Facts table - merging the violation description and fine amount details to the exsiting parking violation table, fixing data types and cleaning missing or duplicate values.
Creation of Date dimenstion table using 'M' language. 
Filteration of the data years - using 2015 to 2017.


Modeling the data:
Creation of relationships between the dimention tables and the facts table.


Creating measures and calculated columns:
Calculation  of tickets count, average fine, revenue, profit, YTD, MTD ect.


The project includes 5 reports, each exmanining different analysis subject.

The first report examines the different kind of parking violations and the different occurance time. 
The report shows the most popular violations for each borough in NY, the distribution of parking violations according to weekdays and different time bins of the day.

The second report examines the different body types.
It shows the tickets count and average fine amount for each body type, the most common violations and a heat map showing the geographic location of the violations.

The third report examines violations done by trucks in Manahattan. 
It shows the streets and avenues in which the highest number of violations occured, as well as the 3 most common violations.

The fourth report exmaines the different issuing agencies.
It shows the tickets count, revenue, profit and average anual salary for each issuing agency, distribution of normalized tickets count by months and years.

The fifth report examines more general insights such as average missing parking and standing spots in NY and a heat map showing its location. 

The main concluations drawn from this project are:
There is a severe shortage in parking spots during weekdays and working hours. Most of the parking violations are attributed to local NY citizens using private cars for parking in "no parking" areas.
A proper reccomandation to solve this would be adding parking spots and parking lots as well as developing an accesible application for parking payments.



